So, first we have the static import,
which I'm sure most of us have used
many times or use most of the time.
So with a static import, we can just
use the built in import keyword, so
import module from this file.
So in that case, what happens is when
the JavaScript engine sees this code I'd
like import module 1 for module 1,
it will execute module 1,
then execute module 2,
then execute module 3.
Is pretty similar to what we saw before
when we talked about the bundler.
So in this case, if we were to statically
import module 3 from module 3,
it will add this to the bundle and then
statically import module 2 in module 3,
it will all add this to the bundle.
Yeah, I won't really talk about
the implementation here just because it's
pretty straightforward.
This is kind of the normal import that
we use nowadays in at least in ES6.
So the static import is pretty useful
because the dependencies are instantly
available to the user.
Because when we statically import
something, it's available in the bundle,
it gets bundled in the main bundle
that the user initially requests.
It's also better for optimizations because
a bundler can statically analyze it and
maybe tree shake it.
But yeah, like I said before, it's pretty
easy to end up with pretty large bundle
size when we statically import
components that may not necessary or
may not be necessary on
that initial render.
So just make sure that you're not
statically importing a lot of components
that aren't instantly
available to the user.
So in decades we can maybe use
something like a dynamic import.
So just to show you an example, for
example we can have this search bar and
only when a user clicks on
that we wanna show that list.
So that list isn't really necessary for
the initial load,
because it will only ever render
it when a user clicks on it.
Now, if we were just statically important,
this search input or
this flyout would have been included in
the bundle for essentially no reason.
Maybe the user never clicks on it, right.
Of course, this is very small example but
just as an example, so instead,
what we could have done,
is dynamically loading this component.
And when we're doing that,
we're just telling the vendor, hey,
this component is on its own.
So it can be in its own little bundle, so
it can be split out of that larger bundle,
and put into its own bundle.
Many bundle wars here.
But so here we have a static import and
then a dynamic import.
So here we see that we're
splitting that search papa bundle,
which is here this component
from the big bundles.
So we can reduce the bundle size by
lazy loading the search bar pop up, and
we can do this with a built in component
in react called react suspense.
So we don't have to touch
a lot back here at all.
Which is super nice, it automatically
will create this separate bundle for us.
And as it's loading this, so
only when a user actually needs it or
when we're actually rendering
the component so when it's open,
will it fetch that bundle and render it.
In the meantime, while it's fetching it,
we of course don't want to just show
something random,
it will show this fallback component.
Let me show you an example.
For example here I'm just going
to open this in StackBlitz.
I'm going to leave this one, so
what I have here is I have multiple cards.
I don't know what the messages are there.
So in here I am statically
importing card1 and Card2 but
I'm dynamically importing card3 and card4
with a lazy method is available on react.
Now I'm adding this webpack chunk name.
I'll show you in a second why
it's just like a nice thing.
But now what we can do is click here to
dynamically import a card 3 component.
So what I have here is I have a suspense
which we imported from react.
And whenever this card is open, so
whenever we click on it, which is
here like on click toggle, then it's open
and then this component will render, and
only then will it fetch that bundle for
that component.
So I can hear it dynamically rendered
at 3:45:03 PM while whereas these
were rendered at 3:44 PM,
same work for card4.
Now you can see that if we
go into the bigger one,
I'm just going to go to
the network request.
I'm going to make this
a little bit bigger.
When we're dynamically importing it,
you can see that it's now
fetching that card3 bundle.
And here card4 bundle.
So, it's only fetching that bundle when we
actually request it when the user actually
needs to see it.
So, that initial bundle
can be a lot smaller.
Now this is called a magic
common the webpack junk name.
It just makes it possible to see the card3
bundle and card4 a bundle because
when we remove that you will just see,
I can just show you what it shows instead.
So this is just kind of
like developer experience.
I'll just reload this.
I'll just show the 0.bundle and like 0.1,
that's not always like super obvious
what is actually loading there.
So I like to use these magic commons
to change the name of our bundles.
Yeah, so
this is already a really good way.
So dynamically importing components
is a really nice way to reduce that
initial bundle size and only fetch
the bundle when a user actually needs it.
So the trade offs here of course
is the pester initial load.
This ensures that we can have that smaller
initial bundle however it can also lead to
layout shift.
Now layout shift is like, for
example here if this component didn't
match this component which is kind
of doesn't it can lead to like
a weird layout shift that's not great.
It's just about like user experience.
And then also,
if you're lazy loading a component and
that component actually
ends up being pretty large.
Maybe this card4 bundle is another
large bundle because somehow we didn't
code split that one.
User clicked on something and
it takes a while maybe they're homeless so
internet or something,
takes a while to fetch it,
to render i,t there you're
like I don't see anything.
I don't know what's going on.
So just something to think about.
But, normally you kinda wanna lazy load
those smaller components that just aren't
instantly visible on the initial render.
Now another, type of dynamic import,
is what we just saw what like
clicking on the cards is kinda go
like import on user interaction,
import on interaction, but
we also have input on visibility.
This is really nice for
example if we wanted to show all those
listings on a smaller viewpoint.
And of course this is
again a small example but
we are rendering those listings that
aren't directly in the viewport.
So instead,
we might lazy load those listings.
And in the meantime,
we'd to show a fallback.
I know this is a really bad animation.
But anyway,
only when the user actually sees it in
the viewport will we render that bundle.
So instead of having an onclick,
we kind of have if it's in the viewport.
Now really nice and
really easy way to do that is by
using the intersection observer API.
But then even easier way is to
use the the hook that they also
provide with that react
intersection observer.
So we can just use a simple
hook called use interview,
which returns a reference and
then in view.
So we can say, okay,
if this components with that ref
is in the view, then show that listing.
Now I just again have this example just
with the cards but see if I can open this,
I feel like if I open it and
StackBlitz it'll be in the viewport.
So I'm just gonna keep this a bit small,
well okay, yeah, okay, so
here we can see that we
statically import it,
actually I'm just going to show you
the code real quick though that.
Ignore this for now.
Sorry about that,
maybe I don't know, right.
So we have this card1 card2 which
we statically import it and
then we also have the card3 and part4,
which we dynamically import it.
And we are using this dynamic current and
we're using the ref and view.
So here we see scroll down because it
just had to be in the viewport not
immediately [LAUGH], so here we see
dynamically imported at 3:48:56 and
here it is at 4:49:01.
So it's basically the same as what we
saw with the dynamic import unclick but
this time it'll fetch the bundle
automatically what's in the viewport.
Now of course from a react perspective,
we implemented this the exact same way.
But instead of being open,
we just had an interview that was
returned from this using view hook.
But this is often also used when
you have maybe a large list or
just many components that
are normally outside of the view.
Or it's the initial viewport,
it's a nice way to import them visibility
not necessarily on user interaction.
It's like the same trade off that we saw
with the with the dynamic input, but
this time a user may not be
expecting to see something.
So you don't really have that, what's it?
I'm clicked on something,
why can't I see your component?
Because it's on visibility it
doesn't require user interaction.
But it's still not great,
it can still lead to layout shifts and
stuff like that, but definitely worth it
for the faster initial load in most cases.
Then we also have
the route based splitting.
Now for example, I'm not entirely sure
what this animation is going to show you?
Yeah, so we can have a separate bundle
per page for example if we normally with
an SBA we have one large bundle that
contains the code for everything.
And although this does give you really
fast navigation what we can do instead is
have a bundle per page.
So when a user here requests the about
page or navigates to the about page it
fetches this bundle and
then it'll render the about page.
This is also a great way to have
that smaller initial bundle so
we only render what is necessary for
the current navigation.
Maybe if you're, I don't know
if you're using React Router but
they provide a pretty
easy way to implement it.
I feel like this is the updated syntax.
I'm just going to open this real quick.
So here you can see that we
are importing those pages, those routes,
as in the Router, the React Router
we're saying that the elements is just
a wreck suspense, like we saw before.
And then we're rendering this component.
So again, from a React perspective,
it's basically the exact same thing.
But when we are, I'm just going to
show you the network request again.
This time the code for the about and
contact page it's not included in
the initial bundle based on their route,
so I can do about in contact.
Now in this case it didn't
use the magic comments so
they just got one bundle two bundle.
Yeah, so these are the bundles
that are just necessary for
this page like here's the pages contact
and here's the other pages about.
So this is also a very nice way to make
sure that we're only fetching the minimal
necessary code.
Any questions so far on bundle
splitting based on certain events?
No, perfect.